Snow Day Quizzz!


1. What is the difference between an API and a server?

   API stand for application programming interface, which is a set of programming instructions and standards for accessing
   a Web-based software application or Web tool.
   For example: Groupon.com released its API so that Web site developers could more easily access Groupon's product
   information. Also can have a third party Website post direct links to Groupon products with updated information.

   A server is a running application which capable of accepting requests from the client and giving responses accordingly.


2. What does a DNS server do when you type "www.google.com" into an address bar?

   DNS server stand for domain name service server, which changes text urls into IP addresses.
   When you type "www.google.com" into an address bar, the request goes to the DNS server first, and looks up it's associated IP address,
   then redirects the request to the right place.



3. What are some differences between a single page application and a multipage application? List one example of each.

  MPA — Multi Page Application, which Ask server for a new page.
        For instance- Wikipedia and Reddit.
  SPA — Single Page Application, which ask server data. All necessary code - HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS...etc.
        It is retrieved with a single page load and behind the scenes. For instance-  Google Map and Trello.


4. Why do we use RESTful routes?

  REST- (Representational State Transfer) is a software architecture style consisting of guidelines and best practices
  for creating scalable web services. RESTful systems communicate over the HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.)
  used by web browsers to retrieve web pages and send data to remote servers.



5. What is an API key and why are they used?

  An API key is like a password used to access to its associated API.
  They are used to know where requests are coming from, and you often have to register in order to get them.
  Keeping any API key that you use in a safe place.
